---
layout: distill
title: A New Alchemy&#58; Language Model Development as a Subfield?
description: This blog post makes the case that the body of research on language models become sufficiently large and mature that we can start thinking about “language model development” as a new subfield.
  To support this claim, we sketch out the focuses and methodologies of this new subfield.
  In addition, we provide some personal reflections on what to do when your field of study gives birth to a new one.
date: 2024-05-07
future: true
htmlwidgets: true

authors:
  - name: Colin Raffel
    url: "https://colinraffel.com/"
    affiliations:
      name: University of Toronto, Vector Institute

# must be the exact same name as your blogpost
# bibliography: 2024-05-07-distill-example.bib  

# Add a table of contents to your post.
#   - make sure that TOC names match the actual section names
#     for hyperlinks within the post to work correctly.
toc:
  - name: Some history
  - name: Language model development
  - name: A New Alchemy
---

Historically, language models have served as an important component of many learning systems -- for example, to improve the transcriptions generated by a speech recognition system.
However, the impact and usage of language models has grown dramatically over the past few years.
Arguably, this growth is simply thanks to the fact that language models have gotten *better*, i.e. more accurate at predicting some text based on some context.
Since most text-based tasks can be cast as predicting a response to a request (e.g. "summarize the following article", "write me a Python function that queries Wikipedia", etc.), recent large language models (LLMs) have proven somewhat effective at performing an incredibly wide range of tasks.
Improvements in the language understanding and generation capabilities of LLMs have also led to their adoption in many larger systems (e.g. robots, image processing/generation, etc.), where they increasingly enable natural language to be used as an interface.
These advances have led to a huge amount of research into building and using language models.
I think this body of research has become sufficiently large and mature that we can start thinking about "language model development" as a new subfield.
The goal of this blog post is to sketch out the focuses and methodologies of the subfield of language model development as well as to provide some personal reflections on what to do when your field of study gives birth to a new one.


